if there was one thing that I wish I've
done when I began my whole fitness
journey it would 100% be to start
training my back I would recommend
anyone to do so as well and also if
you're wanting to create that sort of X
like hourglass figure then back is the
absolute answer when I first began
training legitimately I did was either
train legs or like do cardio this was a
few years ago now and and it was the
biggest mistake to be honest training my
upper body more I've noticed such a
difference in my waist but a much
smaller waist now than I used to and I
also at my core as well and just my
whole performance in all my lives and on
leg days I'm so much stronger so you
know they recommend anyone and everyone
to absolutely train their back when I've
been looking through the old picture on
that oh my god like what a difference
and so I'm gonna run through some of my
favorite and key staple back exercises
and that have really helped me and my
physique on a whole so yeah let's just
get straight into it and I'm gonna do it
a voice over but yet don't forget to hit
the like and subscribe button so rec hit
starting is back workout with a single
arm row this really focuses on your lap
muscles and I love this movement because
you can get such a good range of motion
and you can feel this so much in your
back and really get that squeeze and
mind muscle connection so we start by
having your upper body parallel to the
ground make sure you're holding
something that is really sturdy and that
you're you can't block about on keep
your back straight and bring the
dumbbell back towards your chest
just near your waist at the top of each
contraction make sure you're squeezing
your back and shoulder then we're going
in with the lat pulldown this is an
absolute staple for any back workout so
here you'll just grasp in the bar with a
wider grip and this the wider you go the
more it focuses on your less and so
you're looking forward keep your torso
upright and make sure your shoulders are
retracted that's really important and as
you're pulling the bar down you don't
need to go any further than just you
know
of your chest and when you're at the
bottom of each movement make sure you're
squeezing your lats and try not to rock
your whole body as well and like create
a swinging motion so next we're going
into one of my favorite exercises which
is the underhand kneeling high row so
you just want to be a couple of feet
away from the cable itself with an
underhand grip and you want to start the
motion by retracting your shoulders and
extending with both arms and then
pulling it towards your chest so here
we're doing a bent over row straight arm
pulldown and here you're one since we've
bent over with an arching your back
pushing your chest out and you're
bringing the rope down towards your
thighs keep your arms straight and keep
a fixed focus this is just so that you
don't end up straining your neck or
anything then the last exercise is a
reverse cable crossover I absolutely
love this exercise so just make sure
you've got the right height when you're
doing this one and you don't want it to
be too high so more like a vertical
plane to pull them across and then
obviously cross the cables and both your
hands be really careful of your fingers
when you're doing this and have a slight
bend in your elbows but keep that Bend
like don't increase it or overdo it and
this it's really important to have your
shoulders retracted and down and then
row back I like to think of it as like a
little circle when I'm doing this
exercise and it really helps anyway I
hope you enjoyed this video of a little
run through let me know if you want to
see any other sort of styled videos like
this and I'll see you guys in the net